maybe we could turn our attention to
developments that are arguably somewhat
positive Chile is somewhat positive what
do you think about what's happening in
Argentina with Malai and we also have
the example of El Salvador under and and
with its turning to both Bitcoin
interestingly enough and to the US
dollar so
I'm what let's start with Argentina so
yeah what are your views on what's what
is happening in artina like is what m is
doing is that is that being is that
producing any success on economic
grounds because it's very difficult to
sort out the wheat from the chaff in
terms of anything approximating Legacy
media coverage of
Argentina well well I have to disclose
here that I'm a good friend of mle and
we have been working for Cost of Freedom
in Latin America for 10 years uh
together so what is happening in
Argentina is the most fascinating
interesting thing that I've seen of
course in my lifetime but also I think
in the last U half a century
because what what is really taking place
is a cultural revolution in in a
positive sense not the not the Chinese
type of ma ma type of cultural
revolution but Argentina was the
wealthiest country in the world in 18 uh
96 with highest per capita income in the
world we had a constitution in place the
1853 Constitution that was designed by
Juan Bautista Alberti who was an admirer
of the founding fathers of the United
States he was a classical liberal
conservative classical liberal he
believed uh that government had to be
limited and he he saw in the French
Revolutionary tradition of people like
John Jack one of the main um reasons why
Latin America was not prosperous enough
and because we expect expected
everything from an omnipotent government
he actually has an article called
omnipotent government and he said the
Americans on the other hand they they
expect from government nothing they fix
the things for themselves okay so he
created the 1853
Constitution and after that Argentina
became the most successful country in
the world in terms of per capita uh in
combat if you went to
1914 uh you had half of the population
in Buenos Ares was born not in Buenos
arees they were foreigners coming from
Europe so it was a legitimate question
to ask yourself are we immigrating to
the United States or to Argentina in the
late 19th century this is what happened
back back then and this is why also the
Argentinian population looks so European
in general and you had in the last World
Cup all this nonsensical articles saying
why why there are no black people in the
soccer team in Argentina and so on this
is uh and and and this is very European
population but in the 20s and 30s and
then especially 40s with Juan Domingo
Peron who was a fascist General a
collectivist
fascist General uh admirer of musolini
he had met musolini actually in Italy
but he was anti-communist at the same
time he didn't want the central plan
economy for you know the whole thing but
he he wanted the corporatist type of
very corrupt economy and then they they
changed dramatically the institutions
and Argentina became um a declining
nation and a poor Nation compared to uh
the rest of the world at least the
developed world and and what did M do
mle managed Mele and the free market
movement the classical liberal movement
conservative movement in Argentina I
played a role also there um so we
managed to transform dramatically the
mindset especially of young people in
Argentina you're allowed to vote with 16
so between 16 and 24 mle got 70% of the
votes
70% and uh this these uh young people uh
forced the change towards uh mate up of
very hardcore radical free market uh
regime but not because people were upset
because inflation was so high and so on
no that was not the reason there is a
structural change in Argentina all of
these people they would have they would
have been peronist 20 years ago or 30
years ago now they are Libertarians and
H how did we achieve that well a lot of
going to Medias giving interviews that
especially social media Tik Tok uh
Instagram and YouTube were crucial to
change the mentality of millions of
people and of course the style melee has
a Charisma a style that is very uh you
know eccentric let's put it that way and
he is irreverent he's he has the
rhetoric of a revolutionary which is
very Argentinian by the way it's not
really strange in that country uh he's
very theat theatrical but he's also
intellectually very solid so he came to
power uh and he's doing exactly what he
said he was going to do he didn't lie he
said you know all all over the I mean
the last years that he has been on
television over the last five six years
he has been saying what was going to
happen and what it takes to fix it
everything came as he predicted and now
he's in government he has brought down
inflation from over 25% a month to less
than
4% uh you know you know the inflation in
terms of um Goods um to food it's not
it's
0% so 0% food inflation then you have uh
fisar fiscal Surplus since since January
since he came to power you have a fiscal
Surplus every month a consecutive uh uh
way and then uh you are starting to
see a little bit of a reactivation of
the
economy um because you you you first had
to deal with inflation they were on the
verge of hyper inflation if mle had not
come to power you would have inflation
at over 15,000 per in Argentina right
now 15,000 per. it would be the complete
catastrophe um and he has been a very
skillful politician because he doesn't
have majority in Congress but even so
Congress has passed after several
negotiations and fail attempts to pass
but the bases law which is a a law that
dramatically changes the structure
Argentinian economy which is really a
rent seeking Society it's really you
know corporate interest embed with the
politicians and exploiting everyone else
for their own benefit
[Music]